[DOC] Setup (#779)
seqan/seqan3: doc/setup/index.md

# Installing SeqAn3 {#setup}

<b>Learning Objective:</b><br>
In this short guide you will learn to set up SeqAn3 and how to compile a small example to test whether everything works.

\tutorial_head{Easy, 30 Minutes, No prerequisites, }

[TOC]

<br>

# Software
Requirements:
  - gcc >= 7
  - cmake >= 3.2
  - git

Since SeqAn3 heavily relies on modern c++, you will need at least gcc-7 to compile the code.
Depending on your operating system there are different ways to install gcc-7 or gcc-8:

**Ubuntu >= 18.04**
```
sudo apt-get install gcc
```
**Ubuntu < 18.04**
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-toolchain-r/test
sudo apt-get update

> sudo apt-get install gcc-7

Reviewer: also `apt` is recommended over `apt-get` nowadays, I think.

```
**MacOS** using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)
```
brew install gcc@7
```

**MacOS** using [MacPorts](https://www.macports.org/)
```
sudo port install gcc-7
```

**Linux/MacOS** using [conda](https://conda.io)
```
conda create -n gcc7 -c quantstack gcc-7 libgcc-7
conda activate gcc7
```
This will put gcc-7 in a separate environment called `gcc7` which can be activated via `conda activate gcc7` and deactivated via `conda deactivate gcc7`.

\note If you encounter the error <code>/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libstdc++.so.6: version 'CXXABI_1.3.11' not found</code>, you have to set the LD_LIBRARY_PATH:
```
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/home/user/miniconda3/envs/gcc7/lib/
```
where `/home/user/miniconda3/` is the path to your conda installation.

\attention After installing, `g++ --version` should print the desired version. If not, you may have to use, for example, `g++-7 --version` or even specify the full path to your executable.

> Similarly you need to install cmake and git.

Reviewer: Maybe make just one command line that they can copy'n'paste, like:
```bash
apt install g++-7 cmake git
```

├── build
└── seqan3
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.md
    ├── build_system
    ├── doc
    ├── include
    ├── submodules
    └── test
```

# Compiling and Running

To test whether everything works, we will now compile and run a small example.

First we create the file `hello_world.cpp` in the `source` directory with the following contents:

~~~cpp
#include <seqan3/io/stream/debug_stream.hpp>

using namespace seqan3;

int main(int argc, char const ** argv)
{
    debug_stream << "Hello world\n";
    return 0;
}
~~~

To compile it we first create a `CMakeLists.txt` file in the `source` directory:

~~~cmake
cmake_minimum_required (VERSION 3.2)
project (seqan3_tutorial CXX)

set(SeqAn3_DIR "${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/../seqan3/build_system")
find_package (SeqAn3 REQUIRED)

add_executable (hello_world
                hello_world.cpp)
target_link_libraries (hello_world seqan3::seqan3)

~~~

The directories should now look like this:

```
tutorial
├── source
    ├── CMakeLists.txt
    ├── hello_world.cpp
├── build
└── seqan3
    ├── LICENSE
    ...
```

Now we can switch to the directory `build` and run:

```bash
cmake ../source
make
./hello_world
```

The output should be `Hello world`.

> \note Depending on the standard C++ on your system, you may need to specify the compiler via `-DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=`, e.g. `-DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=g++-7` or the full path to the executable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\note Depending on the standard C++ on your system, you may need to specify the compiler via `-DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=`, for example:
```bash
cmake ../source -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=/path/to/executable/g++-7`
\```
```

<!--

> <h4 id='setup--what-happens'>What happens</h4>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What happens {#section_what_happens}
```
can be references than: `[Here](#section_what_happens)`

> We use cmake as out build software.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use cmake as our build software.
```
